According to GAMMA-J’s Functional Needs Statement this Web Store will:
• Manage customer accounts
• Manage an online store inventory
• Manage a customer’s “Shopping Cart”
• Confirm Orders
• Have an unambiguous interface to assist in browsing the categories and products
• Use Secure Socket Layer (SSL) for security
• Have an availability of 99.999%
• Allow an optional mirror site for reliability and backups
• Feature interface for future software enhancement via “Plug-ins”

2.2 Product Features
Account Management (AM) (High Priority): AM allows users to create, edit, and view
accounts information. It also allows the user to login/out of the system.
Search Engine (SE) (Medium Priority): SE is the tool that assists the user in finding a specific
item in the database. It can receive search criteria, find search criteria, and return the
results of the search.
Product Management (PM) (High Priority): PM allows sales personnel to manage the
product line shown on the web site.
Shopping Cart (SC) (Medium Priority): SC is temporary storage for customers shopping on
the web. Items from the inventory can be reserved in a virtual cart until the customer
decides to purchase them.
Purchasing and Payment (PP) (High Priority): PP is used to approve and transfer payment
from buyers when purchasing items in the cart.

2.3 User Classes
System Administrator: Is generally the owner that takes care of maintenance for the
Web Store system. The administrator will be in charge of assigning privileges of accounts.
Suggested more than one individual can have administrator privilege to ensure
advisability. Full documentation will be provided to the Administrator to assist with this
process.
Sales Personnel: Is generally the owner of the Web Store tasked with updating inventory
and product line descriptions. Once added, sales personnel can add, delete and
change descriptions, pictures, prices, and when ready flag items for customers to buy.
Customer: A customer is an individual wishing to purchase inventory from GAMMA-J’s
Web Store. The Web store will have a variety of clientele depending upon the inventory
loaded on the Key. When creating a new account on Web Store it will default as a
customer account. Later if the account needs to be upgraded the administrator can
accomplish this via the administrator interface.

2.4 Operating Environment
OE-1: Web Store shall operate with the following internet browsers: Microsoft Internet
Explorer version 6 and 7, Netscape Communicator Version 4 and 5.
OE-2: Web Store shall operate on an Intel based system with Slackware Linux 2.6 and
Apache Web Server. The operating system is designed by the Yoggie Corporation.
Although maintenance documentation will be supplied and the operating system will be
tested, the developers of this Web Store are not responsible for the functionality of the
operating system.
OE-3: The system shall use SQL based database to store inventory information.
OE-4: USB interface and divers are provided by Yoggie Corporation.

2.5 Design and Implementation Constraints
CO-1: Must use a SQL based database. SQL standard is the most widely used database
format. Restricting to SQL allows easy of use and compatibility for Web Store.
CO-2: Compatibility is only tested and verified for Microsoft Internet Explorer version 6 and
7, Netscape Communicator Version 4 and 5. Other versions may not be 100%
compatible. Also other browsers such as Mozilla or Firefox may not be 100% compatible.

2.6 User Documentation
UD-1: Shall install online help for users via the web interface
UD-2: Shall deliver Operations and Maintenance manual, Users Guide book, and
Installation Instructions for the Administrator.

2.7 Assumptions and Dependencies
AD-1: Assume the delivery of development, test and evaluate samples of the USB system
from Yoggie.
AD-2: Assume Yoggie will freeze the baseline of the USB system after delivery.


3. System Features

3.1 Customer Accounts
3.1.1 Description And Priority
Customers will be able to create accounts to store their profiles, contact information,
purchase history, and confirm orders. This is a high priority system feature. Security
methods will ensure that customer accounts remain confidential and resistant to
tampering.

3.1.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
• Web Browser initiates request to Web Server via HTTPS
• Web Server parses request
• Web Server submits request to Service
• Service picks up request
• Service runs task
• Service returns results
• Web Server checks for completion
• Web Server returns results to Web Browser
• Web Browser displays results

3.1.3 Functional Requirements
Customers will be able to create accounts to store their customer profiles, configure
contact information, view their purchase history, and confirm orders. Customers will be
able to register, log in, and log out of their accounts. Furthermore, Customer profiles will
also include payment information, such as the ability to store credit card information,
and address information.

3.2 Inventory Management
3.2.1 Description And Priority
Inventory management will allow for the placement of products into multi-tiered
categories. This is a medium priority system feature.

3.2.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
Same as 3.1.2

3.2.3 Functional Requirements
Products will be stored in multi-tiered categories; a category can contain sub categories
or products. The inventory management will allow for administrators to update the
categories, the products placed in categories, and the specific product details.

3.3 Shopping Cart
3.3.1 Description And Priority
Customers will be able to add and store products for purchase within the shopping cart.
This feature is a medium priority system feature.
GAMMA-J Web Store 8

3.3.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
Same as 3.1.2

3.3.3 Functional Requirements
Customers will also be able to add products into the shopping cart. The shopping cart
will clearly display the number of items in the cart, along with the total cost. The customer
will also be able to add to or remove products from the shopping cart prior to checkout
and order confirmation.

3.4 Order Confirmation
3.4.1 Description And Priority
Order confirmation will allow the customer to review their order after checkout prior to
confirmation. This is a medium priority system feature.

3.4.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
Same as 3.1.2

3.4.3 Functional Requirements
Customers will be able to confirm the order after checkout. If the order is incorrect, the
customer will be able to revise and update their order. The customer will then receive a
confirmation email with the specific order details.

3.5 Interface
3.5.1 Description And Priority
The interface will be presented to the customer in a web browser. The interface must
remain consistent among various web browsers and be intuitive to the customer. This is a
medium priority system feature.

3.5.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
Same as 3.1.2

3.5.3 Functional Requirements
Customers will be presented with an unambiguous interface to assist in browsing the
categories and products. Customers will be able to search for products matching their
search criteria. The interface will be compatible with all major web browsers such as
Internet Explorer, Mozilla Navigator, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, and Safari.

3.6 Plug-in API
3.6.1 Description And Priority
The system will feature an API to allow customers to build custom plug-ins to be able to
meet their needs. This is a high priority system feature as it ensures the flexibility of the
system to be tailored to specific needs.

3.6.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences
• Web Browser initiates request to Web Server via HTTPS
• Web Server parses request
• Web Server submits request to API Service
• API Service picks up request
• API Service submits request to Plug-in
• Plug-in picks up request
• Plug-in runs tasks
• Plug-in returns results
• API Service validates results
• API Service returns results
• Web Server checks for completion
• Web Server returns results to Web Browser
• Web Browser displays results

3.6.3 Functional Requirements
The system will implement an Application Interface to allow for various plug-ins to interact
with the system. The plug-in API will be well documented and specifications will be
provided to plug-in developers