3.2.2 Introductory Movie

Purpose:	A short movie to set up the storyline of the game and provide information to help the user complete the fraction questions.

Inputs:	If the user clicks a mouse button while in this component, they will skip the movie and proceed to the main menu. No other input is recognized.

Processing:
Upon entrance to the movie component, the introductory movie will begin playing. If a mouse click is received, this component will terminate the movie and forward the user to the main menu component. Otherwise, the movie will continue to its completion and the user will be moved to the main menu.
 
Outputs:       A movie is displayed on the screen.


3.2.3 Main Menu


Purpose:	A menu that displays a brief section offering help on playing the game, and provides a link to the main game component and the Denominators' web page.

Inputs:	The user can click on the corresponding button to begin the game or follow the link to the Denominators' web page.

Processing:
This component will wait until the user selects a button. At that time, the user will be forwarded to the game sequence component or the Denominators' web page, depending on the button selected.
 

Outputs:	This component will output either the game sequence or the Denominators' web page.


3.2.4 Game Sequence

Purpose:	A series of multiple-choice fraction questions, which sequentially form a storyline related to the introduction.

Inputs:	The user will respond to questions by clicking on the desired answer from a set of choices.

Processing:
This component will display a question, and then wait until the user chooses an answer.  If the user selects the correct answer, a message to this effect will be displayed and the component will move to the next question.
  If the incorrect answer is selected, this component will inform the user of this and give them another chance to answer the question. However, their score will not count this question as being answered correctly.
  At certain "critical points," this component will choose different directions in the plot based on whether the question at the critical point was
answered correctly.
  After the user has proceeded through a set number of questions, they will be directed to the ending scene component.
 
Outputs: This component will output plot-based questions with fractional numbers that are customizable by the game administrator, and offer feedback to the user based on their performance on individual questions.


3.2.5 Ending Scene

Purpose:
 
A screen offering a conclusion to the game's plot based on performance at certain critical points in the game sequence, where the user's score is displayed and the user is given a chance to exit or return to the main menu.
 

Inputs:	The user can select either to end the game or return to the main menu via mouse clicks.

Processing:
This component will wait until the user selects either to return to the main menu 
or to exit the game. After receiving the user's input, the component will act accordingly.
 

Outputs:	The user's overall score is displayed, as well as a plot conclusion that is obviously related to the story in certain key questions.


3.2.6 Question Updater

Purpose:	A web-accessible tool to allow questions in the game sequence to be updated by a game administrator.

Inputs: The user will input new data via pulldown menus and text fields. Each question will be updated on a separate page, and the user will click a button to progress between these pages.

Processing:
The component will wait for the user to click a submission button for each question. After the button is clicked, the component will check that the inputted data is complete and makes sense in the context of the updated question.
 

Outputs:	The component will generate a text file on the game server, which is used by the game sequence to dynamically load question data.


3.2.7 Math Umbrella

Purpose:
 
This component will provide links to mature S2S projects dealing with mathematics for sixth graders, organized by topic (for example, all fractions- related projects will be grouped together).
 

Inputs:          The user will follow a number of links to World Wide Web documents.

Processing:  This component will wait for a user to click a link, and then follow that link.

Outputs:       The component opens the specified S2S product in a separate window.