The HATS-GUI shall provide a user with the ability to construct and use transformations. The HATS-GUI shall facilitate the following activities:
• management of applications;
• parsing of transformation language programs and target programs;
• execution of transformation language programs; and
• examination of SDT and pretty-printed output from transformations.
The subsections that follow provide an overview of each of the mentioned features. The flow of data between
these functions is illustrated in the Data Flow Diagrams (DFD) given in Appendix B. The transition of states
that the system will be in is illustrated in the State Transition Diagram given in Appendix C.

2.1.1. Management Of Applications
The HATS-GUI shall facilitate the creation, deletion, and modification of the files related to an application. As
a practical matter, all files related to an application shall be stored in the same directory or folder. In addition,
the HATS-GUI shall manage file associations within an application. File associations are relationships between
files. For example, target files will be associated with the most recently used pretty-print style files. The HATS-
GUI shall allow the user to examine and modify these associations.

2.1.2. Parsing Of Transformation Language Programs and Target Files
The HATS-GUI shall orchestrate the parsing of transformation language programs and target files. Parsing
entails translating a human-readable text file into a syntax derivation tree. Parsing can be a time-consuming
operation, particularly for multiple look-ahead grammars. In order to expedite execution of transformations,
parsed versions of files can be saved.
Two types of files must be parsed. A transformation language program is a text file describing a set of
transformations to be applied to a target file. A target program is a text file containing the input string to be
transformed. Parsing is done through the use of a parser program, which HATS-SML generates. Parser
generation requires the lexical specification and the grammar as input.

2.1.3. Execution of Transformation Language Programs
The HATS-GUI shall orchestrate the execution of transformation language programs. In order for HATS-SML
to execute a transformation program, the program must be parsed and saved as an SDT. The transformation
language program specifies which target programs will be transformed. The user creating the transformation
language program is responsible for correctly identifying the target program. Input file names are embedded in
the transformation language program.
During execution of a transformation language program, HATS-SML creates SDTs as output. These SDTs
contain a parsed version of the transformed (output) string suitable for use as input to another transformation or
as input to the pretty-print service. (The pretty-print service transforms a target SDT into a text string according
to formatting rules contained in a pretty-print style file.) In addition to the output file, the transformation
language program may specify that debugging and error outputs. The HATS-GUI shall capture data written to
these streams and make that data available to the user.

2.1.4. Examination of SDT and Pretty-Printed Output From Transformations
The HATS-GUI shall facilitate the display of transformation output and error messages received from HATS-
SML in response to parsing or transformation. There are several types of output that can be received from
HATS-SML. During a given session, data sets may be created, saved as files, used as inputs, or deleted. The
HATS-GUI will associate saved files with the application. The HATS-GUI will make a list of these files
available to the user and allow the user to select files for display. The display of SDTs and pretty-printed text
shall allow the user to manipulate the display by choosing portions of the tree to display and by allowing the
user to search for text strings and sub-trees.