2.3 Product functions
This subsection of the SRS provides a summary of the major functions that the PMS will
provide and for whom these functions will be available. These functions will be build up
using a hierarchical user structure, where the following user (the child) inherits all of the
available functions of the preceding one.
The hierarchical user structure will be as follows:
• Guest
• VUB-Network User
• Member
• Publisher
• Moderator
• Administrator
In this structure an Administrator has more functions than a Moderator, a Moderator
more than a Member,. . .

2.3.1 Guest
A Guest is a person that is not connected to the VUB-network nor logged into the PMS.
User Functions
• Register an account
Description: A Guest can register an account on the PMS by filling in a form.
Prerequisites: none
• Log into the PMS
Description: This function allows the user to log into their account ( Member, Publisher,
Moderator, Administrator).
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account.
• Validate a new account
Description: To be able to complete the registration of a new account, it has to be
validated by the requesting user.
Prerequisites: The user first has to fill in the registration form and receive a validation
mail.
• Retrieve Password
Description: This allows a user to retrieve his/her password.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and is not logged in.
Search Functions
A Guest cannot search for publications.
Result Functions
A Guest cannot get results for search queries.
Upload/Edit Functions
A Guest cannot upload or edit publications.

2.3.2 VUB-Network User
A VUB-Network User is a person that is connected to the VUB-network, but is not logged in.
Because of his connection to the VUB-network the PMS will recognize him by the IP-address
and let this person access the PMS . This user will have the choice among the following
functions:
User Functions
see section 2.3.1
Search Functions
• Search
Description: The user can search for a publication by means of a form that contains
multiple text input fields:
– Keyword(s): The user can search for a publication, by typing in certain keywords
using logical expressions(e.g. AND, OR, NOT,. . . ) and certain symbols (e.g.”, ’
,. . . ).
– Author(s): The user can search for a publication, by typing in the text input field
the name(s) of the author(s), ranked by importance.
– Dates between: by filling in these fields of the form one can specify between which
dates the publication they’re searching for was published .
Prerequisites: The user has to be connected to the VUB-Network.
• Advanced Search
Description: A user can extend his Search by filling in an additional form, where they
can specify one (or more) keyword(s) of the Publication and/or by specifying the Pub-
lications that refer to it.
Prerequisites: The user has to be connected to the VUB-Network.
Result Functions
Whenever a search is completed by the PMS the results will be shown and there will also be
some functions available here.
• Order Results
Description: This function allows you to order the results by title, author(s) and year
of publication.
Prerequisites: The user has to be connected to the VUB-Network and has done a valid
search query.
• Export and Download Results
Description: This function allows the user to export (and download) one or more of the
obtained results. It will be possible to export publications to html, pdf and ps.
Prerequisites: The user has to be connected to the VUB-Network and has done a valid
search query.
• Searching Publications on Similarity
Description: The user can search for publications by the same author(s), publications
that are mentioned in one of the results or publications by the same institute.
Prerequisites: The user has to be connected to the VUB-Network and has done a valid
search query.
Upload/Edit Functions
A VUB-Network User cannot upload or edit publications.
2.3.3 Member
A Member is a logged in user that has the following set of available functions.
User Functions
The set of available User Functions of a VUB-Network User (see section 2.3.2) is extended
with:
• Change Account Details
Description: The user can change his account information (e.g. password, e-mail ad-
dress,. . . ). He/She can also send a request for an upgrade of his account to an Admin-
istrator
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
• Log off the PMS
Description: This function allows the user to log off their account. If the user is con-
nected to the VUB network, then he/she should be redirected to the search page when
he logs off. Otherwise he should be redirected to the login page.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
Search Functions
see section 2.3.2
Result Functions
see section 2.3.2
Upload/Edit Functions
see section 2.3.22.3.
2.3.4 Publisher
A Publisher is a logged in user that has the following set of available functions.
User Functions
see section 2.3.3
Search Functions
see section 2.3.3
Result Functions
see section 2.3.3
Upload/Edit Functions
The set of available Upload/Edit Functions of a Member (see section 2.3.3) is extended with:
• Uploading a Publication
Description: The user will be able to upload a publication (pdf, ps) following the
bibTEXor RIS-format. The PMS will be able to automatically retrieve bibliographical
information (e.g. author, title, ) out of the complete text (or the abstract) of a publica-
tion and will provide the possibility to correct this manually, if the obtained information
is incorrect or insufficient. Also will the user be able to specify that ’D. Vermeir’ and
’Dirk Vermeir’ refer to the same author and that ’VUB’ or ’Vrije Universiteit Brussel’
refer to the same institute.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
The provided document has to follow the before mentioned formats (RIS,bibTEX).
• Edit your own publication
Description: The user will only be able to edit the publication that he/she uploaded.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
To be able to edit a publication, they will first have to upload one.
• Bulk Uploading
Description: This function will allow the user to import many publications(or abstracts)
at once (e.g. through bibTEXfiles).
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
The provided document has to follow the before mentioned formats (RIS, bibTEX).20 CHAPTER 2. OVERALL DESCRIPTION
2.3.5 Moderator
A Moderator is a logged in user that has the following set of available functions.
User Functions
The set of available User Functions of a Publisher (see section 2.3.4) is extended with:
• Manage User Level(s)
Description: A Moderator can decide to upgrade a Member (of his own department)
to become a Publisher. He can also downgrade a Publisher (of his own department) to
become a Member.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She should be part of/belong to the specified department
• Manage Group Permissions
Description: A moderator can change the Group Permissions of any group that falls
under his jurisdiction.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She has to be a Moderator and has to have the responsibility for that specific group.
• Edit Author(s)
Description: A moderator can change the information about the Author(s)
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She has to be a Moderator.
Search Functions
see section 2.3.4
Result Functions
see section 2.3.4
Upload/Edit Functions
The set of available Upload/Edit Functions of a Publisher (see section 2.3.4) is extended with:
• Edit Departmental Publication(s)
Description: A moderator can change or overwrite the bibliographical details of every
publication owned by the department of group he/she is connected to.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his/her
account. He/She has to be a Moderator and should be part of/belong to the
specified department.2.3.
2.3.6 Administrator
User Functions:
The set of available user functions of a Moderator (see section 2.3.5) is extended with:
• Access to Control Panel
Description: The user will have access to the Control Panel, from which he will be able
to for example edit the user accounts (upgrade, downgrade or delete user accounts). A
more complete set of possibilities of the Control Panel will be implemented later.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She has to be an Administrator.
• Create/Delete User(s)
Description: An Administrator can create and delete any user of the PMS.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She has to be an Administrator.
• Create/Delete Group(s)
Description: An Administrator can create and delete any Group of the PMS.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She has to be an Administrator.
• Manage User Level (extended version)
Description: An Administrator can change the User Level of every user into any other
User Level. Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged
into his account. He/She has to be an Administrator.
Search Functions:
see section 2.3.5
Result Functions:
see section 2.3.5
Upload/Edit Functions:
The set of available Upload/Edit Functions of a Moderator (see section 2.3.5) is extended
with:
• Edit All Publication(s)
Description: This function allows the user to change the bibliographical details of (or
overwrite) any publication.
Prerequisites: The user has to have a valid account and has to be logged into his account.
He/She also has to be at least an Administrator.22 
2.3.7 Optional Functions
The following functions are possible (future) expansions of the PMS .
• Further extending of the supported formats (e.g. MS WORD).
• The possibility to view in the result page a list of documents that refer to this publication.
• Make the PMS able to automatically to recognize that ‘D. Vermeir’ and ‘Dirk Vermeir’
refer to the same author and that ‘VUB’ or ‘Vrije Universiteit Brussel’ refer to the same
institute.
• If a bibTEX-file with only abstracts and referring URL-fields is uploaded, the PMS would
be able to get the full texts through those URL’s.
• Expand the modular PMS system to make it able to also upload audio and video files
(e.g. mp3, mpeg) that are recognized automatically.
2.4 User characteristics
The users of the PMS are expected to be academic personnel and students with various
technical backgrounds. All the users should have a basic knowledge of the internet.
2.5 Constraints
• The design of the PMS should be modular to simplify the design and implementation
of expansions and replacements.
• The PMS must be able to run on Linux, more specifically the Wilma web server.
(http://wilma.vub.ac.be)
• The web interface will be attractive, simple and standard (W3C XHTML [3])
• All functions and options of the PMS should be available in the least amount of clicks,
while maintaining a certain amount of structure.
• The used programming language will be ruby.
• The code will be documented using RDoc.
• Git will be used for configuration management.
• The use of frameworks is not allowed.
• The PMS web interface will comply with the W3C XHTML 1.0 Transitional standard
[3].
• Only free software can be used for the tools and for the end product. The use of certain
libraries and aids is justified in the SCMP.
• The PMS should be easily installable by using:
TBD2.6. ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES 23
2.6 Assumptions and dependencies
• The users must have a web browser that supports W3C XHTML [3] and have a TCP/IP
connection to the web server.
• The http traffic must be possible on the network connection between server and client.
• Command line users have access to the server shell. Therefore they also have all the
Administrator privileges.
2.7 Apportioning of requirements
Following the demand of the customer(s) to have an early prototype available, the first iter-
ation of the PMS will include the basic functions. Afterwards, in the second iteration, more
functions will be added to the PMS and the previous ones will be enhanced. For this purpose
the different functions will be marked in section 3 as:
• Critical (C) (i.e. needed for the first iteration)
• Sufficient (S) (i.e. needed for the second iteration to have an adequate end product)
• Optional (O) (i.e. implemented if there’s enough time left)