2.1 Product Perspective
Triangular Games is a stand-alone software application that is meant to realize games described in the article “Games on Triangulations” [1].
2.2 Product Features
The software makes it possible to play multiple triangulation games (see [1], for more information on triangular games). The games may be played alone or
against another person, depending on the type of game. A graphical user interface will be shown to the user. This user interface is mainly mouse controlled
but may also be used with a keyboard as well. By default, the system will be able to implement three different games, namely
constructing, transforming and marking. New games may be added to the software easily without the need to modify the code of the original application.
These added games will be automatically selectable through the application’s graphical user interface.
2.3 User Classes and Characteristics
The main user class is player. This is the most important user class and the user interface design will be geared towards serving the player. The software is
however designed mostly for research oriented people coming from areas such as mathematics, social sciences and computer sciences.
Although all research people have an academic background, the technical level of experience may vary greatly. This means that no assumptions about highly
experienced users can be made. The user interface will be designed to serve the needs of inexperienced players.
Since adding new games to the software will also be possible, one user class is the game developer. People from this user class will have experience in playing
the games and the scientific background behind creating new games. This user class is not as important as the player class and users of this class are mostly
interested in the ease of defining new games.
2.4 Operating Environment
The software will be implemented using the Java-platform. This makes it possible to run the application on multiple different environments without any modification
to the code. The software requires a mouse or a keyboard, a graphical user environment (X window system, Windows, Mac, etc.), and Java-runtime
environment (version 1.4 or later)[2].
2.5 Design and Implementation Constraints
The client has requested the use of the Java environment, so the platform has been chosen before design. Because of the cross-platform requirement, the
software cannot be dependent on platform-specific libraries. The software should run well on any computer which has Java 2 (version 1.4 or
later) Runtime Environment (JRE)[3] installed. Installation should be easy, so no external databases should be required.
2.6 User Documentation
Documentation about how to define new games will be provided to make it possible for non-developers to create new games for the system. There are
going to be two end user documentations:
- User manual, for end users. It will describe how to use the system for playing.
- Maintenance manual, for end users and new developers. It will describe how to specify new games for the system. It will also contain the design
documents and interfaces of the system, as well as the source code. If necessary, it will describe also how to implement a plug-in (such as an AI)
for the system.
2.7 Assumptions and Dependencies
This software will be released under the GPL-license.