Product Perspective
Currently, diagnostics on HVAC units and subsystems are performed largely on a manual basis. Sensed data, e.g., temperatures and pressures, are obtained from one or more data acquisition devices. These devices measure and store sensed data over periods of several days to several weeks. Prior to the diagnostic process, data from these devices is input to graphical display software for visual inspection by a human expert. The expert, relying on technical expertise and results of previous diagnostic experience, evaluates the condition of the unit and subsystems based on visual plots of the data. The process depicted in Figure 1 can be partitioned into three logical components. These components are delineated in the diagram by dashed lines and are the data-preprocessing component, the diagnostic component, and output component. The diagnostic tool described in this document will replace the current process with an automated one based on algorithms derived from expert practices. These algorithms operate without the need for data visualization or human expert input. Diagnostic results will be displayed to the user and stored for subsequent retrieval and analysis. For the purposes of this document, the automated diagnostic tool will be assumed to preserve the logical construction of the current process.

Product Functions
As previously stated, the functionality of the automated diagnostic tool can be partitioned into three logical components: the data preprocessing component, the diagnostic component, and the output component. The data-preprocessing component obtains data describing the subsystem under diagnosis and reduces, filters, and otherwise prepares the data for input to the diagnostic component. This data includes sensed data, e.g., temperatures, pressures, electrical current, machine state, etc., as well as fixed data describing the characteristics of the subsystem under diagnosis, for example, specifications and design information, operating characteristics and set points, etc. The data may be processed through averaging, trending, or other statistical analysis. Sensed data can originate from data acquisition hardware either in real time or at some arbitrary time after acquisition. Fixed data will generally be compiled prior to operation of the diagnostic tool and be obtained from permanent storage when needed. Specific requirements will be placed on the data-preprocessing component only with respect to types of data to be input and the format and interface requirements of this input. However, the component is described here to provide insight into the operation of the software. The diagnostic component will detect and identify faults in the operation of HVAC subsystems based on sensed and fixed data input from the data-preprocessing component. The diagnostic algorithms used for fault detection will be derived from current expert practices by AEC. The faults identified by the diagnostic will be enumerated and described under the functional requirements section.
The output component will display and record results output from the diagnostic component. The results of the diagnostics will be displayed to the user in a simple, graphical and textual format. The results will also be stored to permanent storage for subsequent retrieval and analysis.