3.1 Torrent Search

3.1.1 Description and Priority


The user will give a search-term that will search through a database of compatible torrent websites that are added by the development team. The results of this search will be displayed as web links in a tab on the program’s main window. This is one of the main features of the software and therefore has a high priority for development.


3.1.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences


User ticks torrent tick box – system will now query the torrent websites in its database when a search is started.

User enters search term and starts search – system sends queries to the torrent websites in its database based on the search term. Results for this query will then be sent to the torrent tab in the program where they will display information such as website, seeds, peers, size, date posted and a link for the webpage.

User sorts the search results by clicking once on a column header – system sorts all results by descending/ascending order.

User clicks on next page button – system displays the next set of results for the search.

3.2 Video Stream Search


3.2.1 Description and Priority


This feature will search a term the user enters, through a database of compatible video streaming websites that are added by the development team. The video websites will range from sites that actually host video such as MegaVideo, YouTube, etc as well as websites that show links to videos hosted on other sites such as surfthechannel.com, alluc.org, etc. The results will be displayed in a tab on the programs main window. This tab will be split horizontally into two sections, the
top half for the video hosting sites and the bottom half for the video link sites. This is another of the main features of the software and also has a higher priority for
development.


3.2.2 Stimulus/Response Sequences


User ticks streaming host tick box – system will now query the video hosting sites in its database when a search is started. Hosting sites will include the actual videos on their servers, e.g. YouTube.

User ticks streaming links tick box – system will now query the video link sites in its database when a search is started. The link sites will include external video links to different video hosting sites, e.g. surfthechannel.com.

User enters search term and starts search – system sends queries to the video websites in its database based on the search term. Results for this query will then be sent to the video stream tab in the program. The hosting half of the tab displays the website, full video name, length and date posted. The link half of the tab displays the website and video name (e.g. combination of the show’s name and the episode name).

User sorts the search results by clicking once on the column header – system sorts all results by descending/ascending order.

User filters websites they want to be shown in the results – system removes unselected websites from the results.

User clicks on next page button – system displays the next set of results for the search.