3.1  Service Registration

This feature is associated with the registration of resource and service information of each CDN to its SR
3.1.1 Actors

WS: Publishes its resource and service information to the SR.

SR: Registers available local resources at the CDN provider and updates them. Mediator: Collects up-to-date resource information from SR.
3.1.2 Trigger

Service registration is triggered when either one  of the following occurs: (a) resources are  available   as  a  provider   starts  operating;   (b)  previously   registered   resource information needs to be updated; (c) available local resource information is required in the event of traffic surges; and (d) local and delegated external resource information is to be encapsulated in an SR instance included in an established peering arrangement.

3.1.3 Preconditions

Available  local  resources  of a CDN  provider  are detected  along  with  their  service information  such  as CPU,  storage,  upload  and download  rate, etc. These  resources could be provisioned and reserved to satisfy SLAs.

3.1.4 Postconditions

Resources are registered in the service registry and being updated in a regular basis.
 

3.1.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. Each CDN Web server publishes resource and service information.

2. If it is a new resource, its service information  is registered  in the SR with a new resource ID. Resource ID counter is incremented.

3. Else, resource information in SR is updated in a regular basis.

4. In the face of traffic surges,  information  on available  local resources  along with their IDs is supplied to the Mediator.

5.  Local  and  delegated  external  resource  information  is  encapsulated  in  the  SR
instance in the established peering arrangement.
3.1.6 Exceptions

If a resource  fails, its service information  is removed  from SR and the resource  ID
counter is decremented.

3.1.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: The format for service information description is defined

REQ-2: The interaction protocol between Web Server-SR, SR-mediator is defined. REQ-3: Resource provisioning, delegation and reservation policies are in place. REQ-4: There is an established norm that any resource failure will be reported REQ-5: The interaction protocol between Web Server-SR, SR-mediator is defined.

3.2  Request Initiation to Trigger Peering

This feature relates to the initialization  of peering between  CDNs.

3.2.1 Actors

End-user: Requests for content.

Mediator: Receives initiation request from WS to trigger peering.

3.2.2 Trigger

It  is  invoked  when  a  (primary)  CDN  realizes  that  it  cannot  handle  a  part  of  the workload   on   its   WS(s).   The   triggering   condition   considers   the   expected   and unexpected load increases in the initiating (primary) CDN.
 

3.2.3 Preconditions

Exceptional circumstances  such as flash crowds have occurred to place unanticipated load on CDN WSs.

3.2.4 Postconditions

An initialization request is sent to the mediator to trigger peering.

3.2.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. End users request for content from CDN WSs.

2. Flash crowds occurred due to a sudden burst in traffic.

3. Hotspot is generated and provider is unable to handle excess load on its WSs.

4. WS sends initialization request to the mediator to trigger peering.

3.2.6 Exceptions

If  the  user  requests  experience   service  timeout  (threshold),   initiation  request  is cancelled.

3.2.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Malicious requests are detected and rejected.

REQ-2: Web servers have already replicated necessary content.

REQ-3: Both anticipated and unanticipated user requests (traffic) are considered. REQ-4: The format of the initiation request is defined.

3.3  Mediator Invokes Creation of Negotiated Relationship

On receipt of the initialization  request to trigger peering, the mediator of the primary CDN invokes negotiation.

3.3.1 Actors

SR: Sends resource and access information.

PR: Sends policy information for establishing negotiated relationships.
 

PA: Receives service requirements from the mediator.

3.3.2 Trigger

Upon  receiving  the  initialization  request  to trigger  peering,  the  mediator  generates service requirements and passes it to local PA.

3.3.3 Preconditions

Initialization request is received.

3.3.4 Postconditions

Service requirements are generated and they are sent to the local PA.

3.3.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. An initialization request to activate peering is received by the mediator.

2. The mediator  instance  obtains  resource  and access  information  from the SR and policy information from PR to establish negotiation.

3. The mediator generates service requirements.

4.  If  the  service  requirements  are  acceptable  according  to  the  provider’s  policy, mediator passes it to the local PA.

5. Else, reject user requests.

3.3.6 Exceptions

If  the  user  requests  can  not  be  accepted  according  the  provider  policies,  service requirements are not passed to the local PA.

3.3.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: The format of service requirements is defined.

REQ-2: Mediator-SR, mediator-PR, mediator-PA interaction protocols are defined. REQ-3: Mediator works in conjunction with the PA to establish negotiation.

3.4  Resource Discovery through PA

The  PA  of a given  primary  CDN  negotiates  with  PAs  of the peers  to perform  external  resource discovery. 

3.4.1 Actors

External PA: Negotiates with the PA of the primary CDN. PR: Receives negotiated policies from the local PA.
3.4.2 Trigger

Local PA communicates with the PAs of peers to discover external resources.

3.4.3 Preconditions

Service requirements are received from the mediator.

3.4.4 Postconditions

Negotiation  is performed  and a peering arrangement  is established  through inter-PA
communications.

3.4.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. Local PA receives service requirements from the mediator.
 

2.  If  any  peering  policies  exist,  they  are  returned  to  establish  long-term  peering arrangement.

3. Else, short-term negotiation is performed.

4. Local  PA  in conjunction  with  the  mediator  interacts  with  external  PAs  through inter-PA communication protocol.

5. External resources are discovered and negotiation is performed with selected CDN
peers.

6. If sufficient resources are acquired, a peering arrangement is established

7.  Else,  mediator  re-evaluates  service  requirements  and  sends  to  the  local  PA  to perform re-negotiation

3.4.6 Exceptions

If  the  user  requests  can  not  be  accepted  according  the  provider  policies,  service requirements are not passed to the local PA.

3.4.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Interaction protocols between PAs are identified. REQ-2: Malicious requests are identified and acted upon.
REQ-3: There are existing policies for long-term peering arrangement. REQ-4: There is procedure to perform short-term negotiation.

3.5  Operational Management

This feature is responsible  for the inter-CDN  protocol configuration,  resource initialization  and for ensuring effective operations of the established peering arrangement.

3.5.1 Actors

External PA: Exchanges configurations and content availability information, and accepts requests to an optimal peer.

PR: Assists in enforcing negotiated policies.

3.5.2 Trigger

Once policies  are negotiated  and a peering  arrangement  is established,  PAs interact each other in the execution of common goal(s).

3.5.3 Preconditions

A peering arrangement is established.

3.5.4 Postconditions

Necessary functions policies are deployed and administration for effective operations.

3.5.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. Once a peering arrangement is established, the initiating primary CDN through its local PA advertise configuration information to technically support the negotiated relationships between enlisted CDNs.

2. PAs exchange content availability and load information to identify an optimal peer to handle user requests.

3. Request is redirected to an optimal peer’s Web server.

4.  PAs  exchange  accounting  information  to  perform  billing  based  on  negotiated relationships.

5. The policy repository instance in the established peering arrangement assists in the deployment, administration and enforcement of the functional policies.
 

If a peered CDN provider refuses to accept user requests, a given peering arrangement ceases.

3.5.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Negotiation is established between selected CDN peers.

REQ-2: Primary CDN has already acquired sufficient external resources. REQ-3: Malicious requests are identified and acted upon.
REQ-3: Functional policies are identified and deployed.

REQ-4: Effective content delivery is ensured through SLA satisfaction.

3.6  Disband or Re-arrangement

There could be circumstances  under which a given peering arrangement  may need to disband or re- arranges itself.

3.6.1 Actors

External PA: Interactions with local PA of the primary CDN.

3.6.2 Trigger

Any of the termination condition holds.

3.6.3 Preconditions

There is an established peering arrangement.

3.6.4 Postconditions

A given peering arrangement is disband or it is re-arranged.

3.6.5 Stimulus/Response  Sequences

1. A given peering arrangement is currently in operation and peers are cooperating for effective content delivery.

2. If any of the termination condition holds, the local PA disbands or re-arranges the peering arrangement.

3.6.6 Exceptions

If there are exceptional circumstances such as natural disaster, theft, etc. for which any peer is unable to honor the negotiated relationships, a given peering arrangement is not disband or re-arranged and SLA conditions are bypassed.

3.6.7 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Policies identifying the consequences of SLA violation are defined. REQ-2: Policies are in place to perform renegotiation for problem resolution.
REQ-3: Administrative policies are deployed for operations in a peering arrangement.